Story Recapped here.
Today I'm going to explain an action, adventure,
and fantasy film called “Sucker Punch.”
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
In the 1960s, a girl nicknamed Babydoll receives
news on her mother's death and rushes to say
her final goodbyes.
Babydoll has a younger sister, who at the
moment shares the grief with her.
On their mother’s deathbed is their stepfather,
who is smiling menacingly while looking at
the two girls.
After the funeral, the stepfather opens their
mother's will, where he finds out that she
has left him nothing and that all her possessions
are to be given to her two daughters.
This angers him, causing him to act manically,
burning the will.
On that stormy night, Babydoll watches over
her younger sister and puts her to sleep to
comfort her.
Just as she leaves the room, her stepfather
waits for her in the hallway, seeming to have
an evil plan.
Babydoll runs to her room as fast as she could
and bars the door to keep him from coming
in; she even scratches him out of defense,
which angers him further.
Realizing that inflicting physical harm on
Babydoll isn’t enough, he goes to his younger
stepdaughter’s room instead.
He enters the room and starts unbuttoning
his shirt.
Babydoll exits through the window and reenters
through the window.
She holds her stepfather at gunpoint, fires
at him but misses.
She shoots again, hitting his arm, but unfortunately,
the bullet hits her sister.
Realizing what had happened, Babydoll runs
to hug her, points the gun at her stepfather
again, but could not bring herself to kill
him.
Eventually, authorities arrive and blame the
tragedy on Babydoll, and she is declared mentally
unstable.
After the incident, Babydoll is brought to
the Lennox House to be institutionalized.
Two nurses drag her out of the car and bring
her inside.
At the end of a dim hallway, Blue Jones, one
of the asylum’s staff, awaits them as he
makes a deal with the stepfather.
He holds the keys to multiple doors of the
institution and acts as the head of security.
He leads them into the “theater” where
other girls who are labeled insane are kept.
The head psychiatrist, Dr. Vera Gorski, supervises
the girls and utilizes the room as a place
where they could socialize.
As Babydoll observes the girls, the stepfather
bribes Blue Jones into forging Dr. Gorski's
signature to have his stepdaughter lobotomized,
which will stop her from informing authorities
of the true circumstances that led to her
sister’s death.
The poor Babydoll is still speechless about
how fast things in her life are changing;
she observes the institution, watching the
daily procedures done on her.
The day of her scheduled lobotomy arrives;
out of nowhere, she wakes up in another realm
where the asylum has turned into a brothel.
In there, Blue becomes a mobster, while the
stepfather is dressed as a priest.
The star of the show, Sweet Pea, approaches
the three of them to welcome Babydoll and
asks her sister, Rocket, to show the newbie
around the establishment.
Before following Rocket for the tour, Babydoll
spits at her stepfather to express her utter
disgust, making him angry and delusional.
Rocket is naturally friendly and assures Babydoll
that she will be comfortable in no time, as
it just takes a little while to get used to.
She shows her a room where they bring “clients”
and reveals that they are the “main attractions”
to lure in customers for Blue’s other businesses
such as guns, gambling, medications, and the
like.
In the rehearsal room, she is introduced to
the other dancers: Amber and Blondie.
Rocket informs Babydoll that everybody gets
a dance routine that they practice until they
can perform it perfectly.
That night, Babydoll breaks into tears in
the bathroom, completely shattered about how
her life is at the moment.
The following day, while she scrubs the floor
in the hallway, Rocket does her chore in the
kitchen.
While the cook is busy eating his meal, she
tries to take a small block of chocolate to
enjoy; little does she know, the cook sees
what she did and punishes her for it.
Babydoll hears her screams and enters the
kitchen, where she sees the cook pinning Rocket
to the ground.
Immediately, she comes to her rescue by holding
the cook at knifepoint, who now has no choice
but to let the both of them go.
Both of them make it to the end of the hallway
just as the bell rings, signifying that it
is time for their daily rehearsals.
In class, Dr. Gorski is envisioned as their
dance instructor.
She calls Babydoll to come to the middle for
her to be examined.
As Blue enters the room, Dr. Gorski plays
a song.
Babydoll seems clueless and unsure of what
to do, so Dr. Gorski approaches her to say
that she has no purpose of being in the institution
if she does not dance.
She plays the music again, and this time,
Babydoll is willing to dance for her survival.
She closes her eyes and wakes up in a fantasy
world; a majestic temple in the snow stands
before her, so she enters to see what is inside.
With the door slightly opened, Babydoll enters
and sees the Wise Man surrounded by candlelights,
holding a sword.
He asks her what she seeks for, to which she
replies, “a way out.”
The wise man promises her that he will help
her get the freedom that she desperately desires.
Beside him, he opens a box with weapons that
she needs for her journey and hands it to
her.
He then adds that she needs five more items
that will be useful and necessary: a map,
fire, a knife, and a key.
The fifth thing is a mystery that she must
find out on her own, which he claims is the
reason and the goal of her journey.
He also says that to get the item, a sacrifice
would be needed in exchange for the victory.
After relaying this message, the wise man
makes her turn around, where she finds three
samurai giants ready to fight her.
The first samurai kicks her back into the
temple, but she bravely fights back in defense.
With every strike of the samurai’s sword,
she manages to dodge it by jumping into the
air, trying her best not to get hit.
Eventually, she manages to bring the giant
down by striking its knees and cutting off
its head.
Out of nowhere, the second samurai launches
a rocket, causing a big explosion inside the
temple.
Finding out that it didn’t kill Babydoll,
it brings out an enormous machine gun, recklessly
shooting it everywhere.
With impeccable speed, she dodges every bullet
and runs toward the giant to shoot it directly
in the face, causing its instant death.
She then walks bravely outside to face the
final samurai.
It advances at her, and she gathers enough
strength to kill it with just one strike.
Just like that, Babydoll has defeated the
three giants despite her size and amateur
experience in combat.
As the music for her performance ends, she
wakes up in the rehearsal room, finding everyone
impressed and cheering her on.
Completely taken aback, Blue looks at her
intently before leaving the room.
For the first time in weeks, she feels a sense
of accomplishment.
That night, Babydoll lets the other girls
know of her plan to escape from the establishment,
but Sweet Pea is bitter about this idea, saying
that it is impossible.
Blondie enters the conversation to say that
the last three girls who attempted to escape
have died.
Despite this, Rocket is convinced that Babydoll’s
plan could be effective in their escape.
She and Sweet Pea get into an argument about
trying to get out; Rocket then tells her older
sister that Babydoll even saved her from the
cook, believing intensely in her strength.
Because of this, Sweet Pea takes time to contemplate
giving in to their escape plan.
Babydoll enters the room, writes the things
they need on a small blackboard, then discusses
the whereabouts of the items.
The map in Blue’s office, a lighter that
will cause fire for when they escape, a knife
from the cook, and Blue’s master key that
he wears around his neck.
Babydoll finally convinces the four girls
to participate in preparing an escape.
She intends to use her dances as a distraction
while the three girls obtain the necessary
items.
Sweet Pea volunteers to take the map and makes
her way to Blue’s office to inform him that
Babydoll is about to dance.
Excitedly, he heads to the rehearsal room
for some entertainment while Sweet Pea stays
behind for her mission.
As Babydoll closes her eyes to begin the dance,
she is back in the fantasy world where the
four girls and the wise man appear as well.
In this vision, they are in a world war setting
where they have to obtain the map by entering
the enemy trenches and infiltrating a bunker
protected by German soldiers.
All of them make their way through the soldiers
as Amber climbs to a robotic war machine.
The war resumes; bullets fill the air, and
danger is just among them.
The girls fight together to attack the enemies
in hopes of obtaining the first item.
Amber flies into the air with her machine
while shooting planes that pass by to bring
them down faster.
With the air slightly clear, the girls mercilessly
shoot at the enemies and fight them.
They manage to bring German soldiers down
despite being outnumbered and outgunned.
Sweet Pea and Rocket near the bunker and both
of them struggle to fight back even with all
their skills.
The enemies manage to get a hold of them.
Gathering enough strength, Sweet Pea gets
up to help her sister, surrounded by steampunk
soldiers.
The four of them reunite just outside the
bunker, where a weird-looking commander holds
the map.
Babydoll manages to make her way inside, but
the rest of them get left behind.
She uses her sword to fight the guards surrounding
the commander and successfully takes them
down.
The commander comes face to face with her,
attacks, but the structure collapses, and
an officer runs away with the map before Babydoll
could stop him from escaping in an airship.
She then uses a machine gun to shoot the airship,
causing it to explode, leaving the officer
to fall where she stands.
She takes the map from him, but the commander
comes from behind her, asking her to give
the map back.
Babydoll throws the map into the air, and
the girls come to her rescue, crushing the
commander with Amber’s machine.
They all escape and grab the map just as her
dance ends.
Extremely satisfied with her performance,
Blue and Dr. Gorski talks outside to discuss
Babydoll being on stage.
Dr. Gorski contradicts the idea, saying that
the girl is not ready.
Blue reminds her of his authority, making
her give in to his requests.
He then goes back to his office and notices
the hot photocopy machine, which means that
it has been recently used.
He looks at the map and finds out that someone
has touched it.
That night, the mayor enters the brothel,
where Blue warmly welcomes him.
Known for his love for cigars, the girls assign
Amber to steal his lighter, as he is her regular
customer.
She agrees and approaches the old man to obtain
the lighter.
Meanwhile, the show is about to start, and
Dr. Gorski introduces the newest member of
her team to the attending guests.
Babydoll shyly begins her dance and enters
the fantasy world again, which mirrors their
attempt to take the lighter from the mayor.
In a plane, the wise man explains that they
should drop into the courtyard of a burning
castle, and kill creatures along the way.
Their goal is to find a baby dragon and retrieve
two crystals inside it while Amber pilots
the plane.
Before the girls’ descent, the wise man
reminds them not to wake the mother dragon,
which confuses them.
As they make their way down, the girls immediately
shoot at their enemies, and find the dragons’
chamber hidden deep into the castle.
They finally see the baby dragon lying above
human carcasses.
Babydoll slits its throat to get to the crystals.
She lights both of them against each other,
but the mother dragon comes from below the
pit and blows fire at them.
It notices the dead baby dragon and whimpers
just before it flees to chase the girls.
Ready to avenge the death of its baby, the
dragon gets on top of the castle, starting
to attack the girls, but Amber stops it with
the plane.
The dragon then shifts her attention to the
aircraft, starting to chase it relentlessly,
putting Amber in full responsibility while
Blondie shoots at it from inside.
She aims the plane into a bridge to cause
the dragon to crash into it, but it only grows
more aggressive.
It bites into the plane, damaging the tail.
As the dragon sees Babydoll in the palace
grounds, it charges towards her and blows
fire.
She jumps into the air to prevent being burnt,
then proceeds to stab the dragon in the head,
finally killing it.
She feels more empowered than ever, and at
that instant, her performance ends, leaving
the mayor impressed and clueless about his
lighter.
In the dressing room, the girls celebrate
after Amber reveals that she was able to get
it.
Babydoll enters to thank her and proceeds
to hide the lighter under the dresser for
safekeeping.
In the middle of their happy moment, Blue
comes into the dressing room, sensing that
something is amiss.
He lets them know that he is aware of the
trespassing in his office and the loss of
the mayor’s lighter.
In a rage, he drags Blondie to threaten them
that something terrible will happen if their
scheme continues before leaving.
Sweet pea gets afraid of all of them and calls
the plan off.
According to her, Blue is way too powerful
to escape from, but Rocket remains firm on
continuing with the plan, causing a strain
in the sisters’ relationship.
Back in the rehearsal room, Blondie cries
while she gathers the tapes for Babydoll’s
performance.
Torn between giving up and participating in
the escape plan, she breaks down.
Dr. Gorski enters the room to comfort the
distressed girl.
In a motherly way, she assures her that everything
will be alright, and Blondie attempts to let
the doctor know about their game plan.
Unfortunately, Blue walks inside the room
just before she spills the secret.
The girls continue with their plan in the
kitchen, but they all get discouraged because
they're incomplete.
Babydoll admits to Rocket that they should
give up to prevent harm to anyone.
Suddenly, Sweet Pea enters the kitchen with
a change of heart, and the plan resumes.
She locks the kitchen doors and lets the cook
sit on a chair while Babydoll puts on another
performance.
In the fantasy world, they need to disarm
a bomb protected by a couple dozen mechanized
gunmen.
Their goal is to fight the enemies, deactivate
the bomb, and then steal it.
A helicopter brings them to the train where
the bomb is located, and Amber is the pilot.
She shoots a missile for the group to have
access to it.
They fight the robots along the way and succeed
gracefully.
They are significantly outnumbered, but they
manage to take every single robot down with
Babydoll's lead.
Sweet Pea comes for back-up, leading to the
group’s advance, even protecting her sister
in the process.
In a race with time, the group deactivates
the bomb with ease and proceeds to secure
it with ropes to carry it with them.
However, a robot gets back up and throws Rocket
into a corner of the train.
It activates the bomb, and the mission fails.
Suddenly, Babydoll snaps out of her fantasy
and wakes up in the kitchen, where the cook
snaps out of hypnosis.
He notices Sweet Pea taking the knife from
him and is angered, realizing the girls’
scheme.
Just as the cook is about to stab Rocket,
who intends to protect her sister, Babydoll
returns to the fantasy world.
Sweet Pea and Rocket are left on the train,
where Rocket’s jetpack is broken.
She launches Sweet Pea’s jetpack into the
air, leaving her alone on the train as her
sister watches her from the air in complete
despair.
After arriving at the destination, the train
explodes, paralleled by the cook stabbing
Rocket fatally as she tries to protect her
sister.
Blue storms into the kitchen to find it in
complete disaster, raging about Rocket’s
death, who is an asset to his business.
Sweet Pea is distressed by the passing of
her sister, acting frantic, before Blue sends
his guard to take her to the closet.
That night, Babydoll’s buyer, a man named
High Roller, arrives at the brothel to spend
a night of entertainment.
Before the show, Blue enters the dressing
room to sermon the girls about their behavior
in the past few days.
Sensing that he may get out of control, Dr.
Gorski tries to stop him, but she slaps her
out of his way.
The angered mobster reveals to everyone that
Blondie snitched on the girls and informed
him about their plan.
Full of guilt, Blondie cries and apologizes
for what she has done out of fear, but Blue
is unstoppable.
He continues to confront them by flipping
the blackboard that reveals their game plan,
and not long after that, he shoots Amber.
However, it is not enough for him, so he shoots
Blondie after calling her a snitch.
The distressed Dr. Gorski is sent away by
Blue’s guards, still mourning the death
of the girls.
After everyone leaves the room, Blue attempts
to force himself on Babydoll.
He puts her against the dresser while she
desperately fights back.
Luckily, she manages to get a hold of the
knife and stabs Blue in the neck.
It allows her to grab the master key from
him after saying that he will never own her.
She then makes her way to the closet to free
Sweet Pea and informs her that it is just
the two of them from now on.
With the items complete, they start a fire
to keep the orderlies busy and occupied while
they seek an exit.
They use the map to run through the hallways
unnoticed and open the gates using Blue’s
key.
As the fire alarms are activated, the gates
are unlocked, giving them an easy passage,
but a group of men blocks their way in the
courtyard.
Babydoll realizes that the fifth item they
need is her sacrifice.
Despite Sweet Pea's protests to be together,
Babydoll insists on showing herself to the
men, thus distracting them long enough to
bid time and allow her friend to run away
unnoticed.
Sad about separating ways, Babydoll comes
in front of the men, and one of them knocks
her out.
This permanently closes the fantastical realm.
Back in the asylum’s surgery room, the surgeon
has finished Babydoll's lobotomy.
Dr. Gorski enters and notes that during her
short stay in the institution, the girl already
stabbed an orderly, started a fire, and even
helped another girl escape the asylum.
The surgeon is taken aback by Babydoll's expression
after the procedure and asks Dr. Gorski why
she authorized the lobotomy and many identical
ones before.
Dr. Gorski realizes that Blue has been faking
her signature, just as Babydoll is escorted
outside the room.
The poor Babydoll is brought to a room where
Blue welcomes her and intends to force himself
on her again.
Suddenly, the police enter and apprehend him
from doing anything to the girl; they take
him away, as Babydoll sits and smiles serenely.
Sweet Pea gets stopped by police at a bus
station as she tries to board a bus, but the
bus driver, who happens to be the wise man,
rescues her by misleading the police and kindly
letting her board.
At last, Sweet Pea has another chance in life,
leaving everything behind but the bond with
her friends
and sister.